Blockchain:

	What is blockchain?

		Blockchain can be explained as a decentralized database where there is no central organisation/authority to control it. Blockchain is a chain of blocks containing information. Each block has information about transactions carried out on the network. For eg. Bitcoin is one of the largest blockchain networks being used. Bitcoin is a cryptocurrency which is built on blockchain. Blockchain is highly secure and it is very difficult to tamper with the data entered in the blockchain. Blockchain gets its security from a cryptographic technique called hashing. Each block contains its own hash and hash of the previous block. Information such as timestamp of the transaction, user details, amount of transaction is hashed and stored in the next adjacent block. As the first block does not have any block before it, thus it is called a genesis block. 
		
	
	Who can access a blockchain?
		
		A blockchain network is open to the public, anyone can view the information related to a transaction carried out on the network. There can be various types of blockchains, such as public, private and consortium(semi-private). A private blockchain network is only open to a certain organisation or group of users whereas the public one can be viewed by anyone.
	
	How secure is blockchain?
		
		How a blockchain gets its security? Well the answer is hidden in the cryptographic techniques used and because of being decentralized. Every block in the blockchain is verified based on the previous block. A block containing the previous hash should match with the hash of previous block's hash. Then only the block is said to be verified. When a new block is added to a blockchain, various people contribute together to check whether the block is valid or not. Such users are called as miners. Miners have high computational power based hardware so they can carry out the validation process for adding the block to the blockchain. Each miner has the copy of the blockchain. Whenever there is a transaction carried out on the network, each miner gets into the process of validating the transaction. Each miner is provided with a mathematical problem which can only be solved using brute force approach. The first miner to get the solution is then verified by other miners on the network and when validated properly, the block containing the transaction is added to the blockchain. And the particular miner is rewarded. This process is called as the Proof of Work(PoW). Thus, it is very difficult to add a transaction containing malicious information. Hashes provides great security to blockchain but this days, due to high computational power of the computers, an attacker can change the information of a particular block and can then recalculate hashes of rest of the block. Thus, Proof of Work eliminates this kind of threat and makes the blockchain secure in every aspect. Calculating the computational problem takes more time than verifyinf the problem. So, if one miner solves the problem, rest can verify it in less time. 
		 
	Is Blockchain is a revolutionary technology?
		
		Blockchain is becoming more and more popular day by day. Not only in the field of cryptocurrencies, Blockchain is gaining a lot of scope in Health, IOT, Government Sectors and Markets etc. As there is an increase in the data, there is a need for more security to protect it. Blockchain can be the key in the terms of security to secure such a huge amount of data efficiently. Blockchain is reliable as it verifies every information which removes double records. It is immutable. Once a transaction is entered in the blockchain, it cannot be removed. Blockchain can avoid fraud activities due to consensus and distributed ledger. Smart Contracts are developed within a blockchain which are replacing traditional contracts. Smart Contracts are small programs that provide functionality such as verification and exchange of information in a legal and authorized way. Dapps or Decentralized Applications are including blockchain technology in applications with backend code that connects with the blockchain interface. 
		Blockchain is a revolutionary technology that is shaping the world's economy in a new way and becoming an important aspect in day to day life in terms of security and reliability. Various platforms such as Ethereum and Hyperledger Fabric are giving developers the opportunity to develop efficient blockchain networks. Blockchain is the next big technology to improve the government and financial aspects for a better tomorrow.
